# Project-Undergrad-Team-Taco-Cat

This Project utilizes the RCSB_PDB Human Macromolecular Structure Dataset from Kaggle.com. The dataset contains 11,832 protein structures obtained from the RCSB Protein Data Bank (PDB) from 2015 to 2023. With 51 features ranging from taxonomic information to crystallization conditions, this dataset has immense potential for machine learning tasks, such as enzyme classification. Identifying an enzyme's capabilities is crucial to scientists. It not only gives insight into a protein's function, but could also help scientists predict an enzyme's impact on the body. Being able to predict such activity is critical for drug discovery and healthcare as a whole. By learning the specific characteristics of each class of enzymes, an AI model could determine the class of a specified enzyme if supplied with the right input features.

Out of the 51 possible features in the dataset to train the model on, we selected 17. The target feature is the enzyme classification, with each class assigned a different numerical code in the dataset. The remaining 16 input features were chosen based on their impact on enzyme classification. The number of amino acids (residues), chains of amino acids, and actual sequence of amino acids for each protein were chosen since enzymes of the same class have similar structural patterns, and therefore functions. To allow the model to further understand such "motifs", secondary structure information (number of helixes, sheets, and coils) were also chosen. Oligomeric state and stoichiometry features were chosen since enzymes of the same class have similar monomer assemblies. The molecular weight of each enzyme is also indicative of protein class. The identity of the macromolecule is also important as not all enzymes in the Protein Data Bank are proteins. Lastly, enzyme function larglety depends on the environment in which it was crystallized. So, data such as pH, temperature, percent solvent content, and the actual crystallization method were chosen to use in the model's training. With all of these relevant input features, enzyme function can be determined, allowing for classification. 

Method - 
